# Data Modeling with Postgres

## Introduction
A startup called Sparkify wants to analyze the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. 

## Project Description
In this project, I have applied what I've learned on data modeling with Postgres and build an ETL pipeline using Python.

## Prerequisites
Python 3 or above.\
PostgreSQL database.\
Python libraries for PostgreSQL 

## Instructions:
First, we need to run the script create_tables.py to creates and connect to Sparkify database. This script also drops and creates Sparkify tables. You run this file to reset your tables before each time you run your ETL scripts.\
Secondly, we need to run the script sql_queries.py which contains all required sql queries to drop and create Sparkify tables.\
test.ipynb can be used to test if you've successfully added a record to tables.\
etl.ipynb reads and processes a single file from song_data and log_data and loads the data into your tables. This notebook contains detailed instructions on the ETL process for each of the tables.\
etl.py reads and processes files from song_data and log_data and loads them into your tables. You can fill this out based on your work in the ETL notebook.


## About the data
### Song Dataset
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json\
song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json

### Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.
The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json\
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json


## Schema for Song Play Analysis
### Fact Table
songplays - records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong\
songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent
### Dimension Tables
users - users in the app\
user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level\
songs - songs in music database\
song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration\
artists - artists in music database\
artist_id, name, location, latitude, longitude\
time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units\
start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday

